# Embedded-system
Traffic congestion leads to long, inconsistent commute times, environmental pollution, and energy waste. These negative effects are more acute in developing countries like Nigeria, where infrastructure growth is slow because of cost and bureaucratic issues. Frustration with the traffic lights increases accidents from motor vehicles moving when the traffic light, signals them to stop. Intelligent traffic operation and better access to traffic information for commuters can help mitigate traffic issues to a certain extent.
The traffic lights insure that vehicles from every direction get a chance to do through the crossroad in an orderly fashion. typically, we will have the traffic signal lights programmed for particular time intervals. But, in day- to- day life we observe that traffic on one side on a two- way road is generally more when compared to the other. In such a situation programming equal intervals of time for both types of traffic, attributes to traffic during hours of heavy business, making traffic holdups. (Chandrasekara et al., 2020)
In this project, the use of an innovative RFID (Radio frequency identification) and UR (Ultrasonic Sensor) density-based smart traffic control system to address these issues. The system utilizes RFID and UR sensor technology to detect and manage the movement of vehicles, particularly focusing on providing a clear path for both normal and most especially emergency vehicles during traffic congestions. The framework is modeled through an experimental setup using STM microcontroller and LED displays, simulating real-time traffic scenarios
